docs/index.md, before:

# MongoZ

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://mongoz.tarsild.io"><img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/tarsild/image/upload/v1695724284/packages/mongoz/nwtcudxmncgoyw4em0th.png" alt='mongoz'></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
    <em>🔥 ODM with Pydantic made it simple 🔥</em>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/tarsil/mongoz/workflows/Test%20Suite/badge.svg?event=push&branch=main" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://github.com/tarsil/mongoz/workflows/Test%20Suite/badge.svg?event=push&branch=main" alt="Test Suite">
</a>

<a href="https://pypi.org/project/mongoz" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/mongoz?color=%2334D058&label=pypi%20package" alt="Package version">
</a>

<a href="https://pypi.org/project/mongoz" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/mongoz.svg?color=%2334D058" alt="Supported Python versions">
</a>
</p>

---

**Documentation**: [https://mongoz.tarsild.io][mongoz] 📚

**Source Code**: [https://github.com/tarsil/mongoz](https://github.com/tarsil/mongoz)

---

## Motivation

MongoZ is an async Python ODM (Object Document Mapper) for MongoDB built on top of [Motor][motor] and
[Pydantic][pydantic].

MongoZ is also inspired by the great work of [Aminalee](https://aminalaee.dev/mongox/) from the
MongoX.

So why a MongoZ if there is a MongoX? Well, MongoZ is from the same author of [Esmerald][esmerald],
[Saffier][saffier], [Mongoz][mongoz] and many other tools out there and they all follow a specific need
and pattern of development.

Mongox implements really well some operations with MongoDB but for use cases where [Signals][./sinals.md],
for example, are needed, Mongox was not aiming at it and also since the creator of Mongoz is the
same as [Mongoz][mongoz] and [Saffier][saffier], the friendly interface to interact is also a must.

## Mongoz

This is some sort of a fork of Mongox with a rewritten core but reusing some of its best features
while adding additional ones and a common and friendly interface as well as intuitive.

This ODM is designed for **async** which means flexibility and compatibility with various frameworks
out there such as [Esmerald][esmerald], FastAPI, Sanic, Starlette and many others making MongoZ
**framework agnostic**.

## Features

While adopting a familiar interface, it offers some cool and powerful features using Pydantic and
Motor.

### Key features

* **Document inheritance** - For those cases where you don't want to repeat yourself while maintaining integrity of the documents.
* **Abstract classes** - That's right! Sometimes you simply want a document that holds common fields that doesn't need to created as
a document in the database.
* **Meta classes** - If you are familiar with Django, this is not new to you and Mongoz offers this in the same fashion.
* **Filters** - Filter by any field you want and need.
* **Model operators** - Classic operations such as `update`, `get`, `get_or_none` and many others.
* **Indexes** - Unique indexes through meta fields.
* **Signals** - Quite useful feature if you want to "listen" to what is happening with your documents.

And a lot more you can do here.

## Installation

To install Mongoz, run:

```shell
$ pip install mongoz
```

## Quickstart

The following is an example how to start with Mongoz and more details and examples can be found throughout the documentation.

Use `ipython` to run the following from the console, since it supports `await`.

## Note

Mongoz document declaration with typing is merely visual. The validations of the fields are not done by the typing of
the attribute of the models but from the mongoz fields.

Which means you don't need to worry about the wrong typing as long as you declare the correct field type.

So does that mean Pydantic won't work if you don't declare the type? Absolutely not.
Internally Mongoz runs those validations through the declared fields and the Pydantic validations
are done exactly in the same way you do a normal Pydantic model.

Nothing to worry about!


[mongoz]: https://mongoz.tarsild.io
[motor]: https://github.com/mongodb/motor
[pydantic]: https://pydantic.dev/
[mongoz]: https://mongoz.tarsild.io
[saffier]: https://saffier.tarsild.io
[esmerald]: https://esmerald.dev

Commit message:

Add docs for signals
* Fix default sets when creating a document

docs/index.md, after:

# MongoZ

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://mongoz.tarsild.io"><img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/tarsild/image/upload/v1695724284/packages/mongoz/nwtcudxmncgoyw4em0th.png" alt='mongoz'></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
    <em>🔥 ODM with Pydantic made it simple 🔥</em>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/tarsil/mongoz/workflows/Test%20Suite/badge.svg?event=push&branch=main" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://github.com/tarsil/mongoz/workflows/Test%20Suite/badge.svg?event=push&branch=main" alt="Test Suite">
</a>

<a href="https://pypi.org/project/mongoz" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/mongoz?color=%2334D058&label=pypi%20package" alt="Package version">
</a>

<a href="https://pypi.org/project/mongoz" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/mongoz.svg?color=%2334D058" alt="Supported Python versions">
</a>
</p>

---

**Documentation**: [https://mongoz.tarsild.io][mongoz] 📚

**Source Code**: [https://github.com/tarsil/mongoz](https://github.com/tarsil/mongoz)

---

## Motivation

MongoZ is an async Python ODM (Object Document Mapper) for MongoDB built on top of [Motor][motor] and
[Pydantic][pydantic].

MongoZ is also inspired by the great work of [Aminalee](https://aminalaee.dev/mongox/) from the
MongoX.

So why a MongoZ if there is a MongoX? Well, MongoZ is from the same author of [Esmerald][esmerald],
[Saffier][saffier], [Mongoz][mongoz] and many other tools out there and they all follow a specific need
and pattern of development.

Mongox implements really well some operations with MongoDB but for use cases where [Signals][./sinals.md],
for example, are needed, Mongox was not aiming at it and also since the creator of Mongoz is the
same as [Mongoz][mongoz] and [Saffier][saffier], the friendly interface to interact is also a must.

## Mongoz

This is some sort of a fork of Mongox with a rewritten core but reusing some of its best features
while adding additional ones and a common and friendly interface as well as intuitive.

This ODM is designed for **async** which means flexibility and compatibility with various frameworks
out there such as [Esmerald][esmerald], FastAPI, Sanic, Starlette and many others making MongoZ
**framework agnostic**.

## Features

While adopting a familiar interface, it offers some cool and powerful features using Pydantic and
Motor.

### Key features

* **Document inheritance** - For those cases where you don't want to repeat yourself while maintaining integrity of the documents.
* **Abstract classes** - That's right! Sometimes you simply want a document that holds common fields that doesn't need to created as
a document in the database.
* **Meta classes** - If you are familiar with Django, this is not new to you and Mongoz offers this in the same fashion.
* **Filters** - Filter by any field you want and need.
* **Model operators** - Classic operations such as `update`, `get`, `get_or_none` and many others.
* **Indexes** - Unique indexes through meta fields.
* **Signals** - Quite useful feature if you want to "listen" to what is happening with your documents.

And a lot more you can do here.

## Installation

To install Mongoz, run:

```shell
$ pip install mongoz
```

## Quickstart

The following is an example how to start with Mongoz and more details and examples can be found throughout the documentation.

Use `ipython` to run the following from the console, since it supports `await`.

```python
{!> ../docs_src/quickstart/quickstart.py !}
```

## Note

Mongoz document declaration with typing is merely visual. The validations of the fields are not done by the typing of
the attribute of the documents but from the mongoz fields.

Which means you don't need to worry about the wrong typing as long as you declare the correct field type.

So does that mean Pydantic won't work if you don't declare the type? Absolutely not.
Internally Mongoz runs those validations through the declared fields and the Pydantic validations
are done exactly in the same way you do a normal Pydantic model.

Nothing to worry about!


[mongoz]: https://mongoz.tarsild.io
[motor]: https://github.com/mongodb/motor
[pydantic]: https://pydantic.dev/
[mongoz]: https://mongoz.tarsild.io
[saffier]: https://saffier.tarsild.io
[esmerald]: https://esmerald.dev
